# [Silver III] This Can’t Go On Forever - 4473 

[문제 링크](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/4473) 

### 성능 요약

메모리: 2020 KB, 시간: 336 ms

### 분류

브루트포스 알고리즘, 구현, 수학, 정수론, 시뮬레이션

### 제출 일자

2025년 7월 13일 15:30:53

### 문제 설명

<p>“A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away...”, so long ago, in fact, that the Empire did not exist and there were planets without space travel. In a far corner was a world in which the predominant pet, called tayes, reproduced by budding. Once a taye had separated from its parent, it took one time unit to mature to the point of breeding, which, coincidentally, was the length of time for a new bud to grow and separate from its parent. The tayes are extremely long-lived, so that it became important to investigate how many someone might have, assuming that at time zero the person did not have a taye, and at time one had acquired an immature one, freshly budded from the mature taye belonging to a friend.</p>

<p>This ends up giving the following recurrence: T(0) = 0, T(1) = 1, T(n) = T(n–1) + T(n–2), for n > 1.</p>

<p>Computing at the time involved unsigned binary numbers with 24 bits. That motivated a particularly curious inhabitant, Leon, to investigate the series generated by that recurrence, but constrained by a modulus — and not just the modulo 2<sup>24</sup> forced by computing hardware. So the question becomes how long a series of number is generated by this recurrence, subject to arithmetic with a particular modulus, before it begins repeating. Here are the first few series:</p>

<table class="table table-bordered" style="width:70%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td style="text-align:center"><strong>Modulus</strong></td>
			<td style="text-align:center"><strong>Front end of the series under that moduls</strong></td>
			<td style="text-align:center"><strong>Length of the Period</strong></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td style="text-align:center">2</td>
			<td style="text-align:center"><em><strong>0 1 1</strong></em> 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1</td>
			<td style="text-align:center">3</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td style="text-align:center">3</td>
			<td style="text-align:center"><em><strong>0 1 1 2 0 2 2 1</strong></em> 0 1 1 2 0 2 2 1 0 1 1 2 0 2 2 </td>
			<td style="text-align:center">8</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td style="text-align:center">4</td>
			<td style="text-align:center"><em><strong>0 1 1 2 3 1</strong></em> 0 1 1 2 3 1 0 1 1 2 3 1 0 1 1 2 3</td>
			<td style="text-align:center">6</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td style="text-align:center">5</td>
			<td style="text-align:center"><em><strong>0 1 1 2 3 0 3 3 1 4 0 4 4 3 2 0 2 2 4 1</strong></em> 0 1 1</td>
			<td style="text-align:center">20</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>The problem is to determine the length of the period for each modulus given in the input file and report it.</p>

### 입력 

 <p>The input file contains an indeterminate number of lines, each containing a single integer mod guaranteed to be in the range 2 ≤ mod ≤ 16777216 (2<sup>24</sup>). The final line contains a 0 as end of data and should not be processed.</p>

<p> </p>

### 출력 

 <p>For each modulus in the input file, print the modulus, one blank, and then the size of the smallest period of these T numbers under that modulus.</p>

<p> </p>

